OKTA-435191: Log Streaming API dev docs (#2684)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/api/log-streaming/index.md

logStreamId       | `id` of a log stream  | URL        | String   | TRUE     |

##### Response parameters

The requested [Log Stream object](#log-stream-object)

##### Request example

```bash
curl -v -X GET \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
"https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/logStreams/0oa1orqUGCIoCGNxf0g4"
```

##### Response example

```json
{
  "id": "0oa1orzg0CHSgPcjZ0g4",
  "type": "aws_eventbridge",
  "name": "Example EventBridge",
  "lastUpdated": "2021-10-21T16:59:59.000Z",
  "created": "2021-10-21T16:59:59.000Z",
  "status": "ACTIVE",
  "settings": {
    "accountId": "123456789012",
    "eventSourceName": "your-event-source-name",
    "region": "us-east-2"
  },
  "_links": {
    "self": {
      "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/logStreams/0oa1orzg0CHSgPcjZ0g4",
      "method": "GET"
    },
    "deactivate": {
      "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/logStreams/0oa1orzg0CHSgPcjZ0g4/lifecycle/deactivate",
      "method": "POST"
    }
  }
}
```

### List Log Streams

<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />

<ApiOperation method="get" url="/api/v1/logStreams" />

> Paginates Log Streams in your org. Can return a subset of Log Streams that match a supported filter expression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
List Log Streams in your org. You can request a paginated list or a subset of Log Streams that match a supported filter expression.
```

> - [List log streams with defaults](#list-log-streams-with-defaults)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [List Log Streams](#list-log-streams)
```

> - [List log streams with status](#find-log-streams-by-status)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [List Log Streams by status](#find-log-streams-by-status)
```

> - [List log streams with type](#find-log-streams-by-type)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [List Log Streams by type](#find-log-streams-by-type)
```

##### Request parameters

| Parameter | Description                                                                                                      | Param Type | DataType | Required | Default |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- | -------- | -------- | ------- |

> | after     | Specifies the pagination cursor for the next page of apps                                                        | Query      | String   | FALSE    |         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| after     | Specifies the pagination cursor for the next page of Log Streams                                                        | Query      | String   | FALSE    |         |
```

> | filter    | Filters apps by `status`, `type`                                                                                 | Query      | String   | FALSE    |         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| filter    | [Filters](#filters) Log Streams by `status` or `type`                                                                                 | Query      | String   | FALSE    |         |
```

> | limit     | Specifies the number of results per page (maximum 200)                                                           | Query      | Number   | FALSE    | 20      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| limit     | Specifies the number of Log Streams to return per page (maximum 200)                                                           | Query      | Number   | FALSE    | 20      |
```

The results are [paginated](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#pagination) according to the `limit` parameter.
If there are multiple pages of results, the Link header contains a `next` link that should be treated as an opaque value (follow it, don't parse it).

###### Filters

> The following filters are supported with the filter query parameter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following filters are supported with the `filter` query parameter:
```

| Filter                              | Description                                                                       |
| ----------------------              | ------------------------------------------------------                            |
| `type eq ":type"`                   | Log streams of a particular [log stream type](#log-stream-type) such as `aws_eventbridge` |
| `status eq "ACTIVE"`                | Log streams that have a `status` of `ACTIVE`                                             |
| `status eq "INACTIVE"`              | Log streams that have a `status` of `INACTIVE`                                           |

> **Note:** Only a single expression is supported as this time. The only supported filter type is `eq`.

##### Response parameters

Array of [Log Stream](#log-stream-object)

> #### List log streams with defaults

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### List Log Streams
```

---
title: Log Streaming
category: management
---

# Log Streaming API

<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />

The Okta Log Streaming API provides operations to manage Log Stream configurations for an org.
You can configure up to two Log Stream integrations per org.

> > **Note:**  The **Log Streaming** Early Access feature must be enabled. See [Manage Early Access and Beta features](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext_Manage_Early_Access_features) for more information on Okta's Self-Service Feature Manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:**  The **Log Streaming** Early Access feature must be enabled. See [Manage Early Access and Beta features](https://help.okta.com/okta_help.htm?id=ext_Manage_Early_Access_features) for more information on Feature Manager.
```

| limit     | Specifies the number of results per page (maximum 200)                                                           | Query      | Number   | FALSE    | 20      |

The results are [paginated](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#pagination) according to the `limit` parameter.
If there are multiple pages of results, the Link header contains a `next` link that should be treated as an opaque value (follow it, don't parse it).

###### Filters

The following filters are supported with the filter query parameter:

| Filter                              | Description                                                                       |
| ----------------------              | ------------------------------------------------------                            |
| `type eq ":type"`                   | Log streams of a particular [log stream type](#log-stream-type) such as `aws_eventbridge` |
| `status eq "ACTIVE"`                | Log streams that have a `status` of `ACTIVE`                                             |
| `status eq "INACTIVE"`              | Log streams that have a `status` of `INACTIVE`                                           |

> > **Note:** Only a single expression is supported as this time. The only supported filter type is `eq`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The Log Stream list filter only support the `eq` operator and allows one filter expression per request. Use URL encoding for special characters, such as replacing a space with a plus (+) sign. See [Filter](/docs/reference/core-okta-api/#filter) design principles for details.
```

##### Response parameters

> Array of [Log Stream](#log-stream-object)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Array of [Log Stream](#log-stream-object) objects
```

#### List log streams with defaults

> Enumerates all log streams added to your org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns a list of all Log Streams added to your org
```

```

##### Response example

```json
[
  {
    "id": "0oa1orzg0CHSgPcjZ0g4",
    "type": "aws_eventbridge",
    "name": "Example AWS EventBridge",
    "lastUpdated": "2021-10-21T16:59:59.000Z",
    "created": "2021-10-21T16:59:59.000Z",
    "status": "ACTIVE",
    "settings": {
      "accountId": "123456789012",
      "eventSourceName": "your-event-source-name",
      "region": "us-east-2"
    },
    "_links": {
      "self": {
        "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/logStreams/0oa1orzg0CHSgPcjZ0g4",
        "method": "GET"
      },
      "deactivate": {
        "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/logStreams/0oa1orzg0CHSgPcjZ0g4/lifecycle/deactivate",
        "method": "POST"
      }
    }
  }
]
```

### Update a Log Stream

<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />

<ApiOperation method="put" url="/api/v1/logStreams/${logStreamId}" />

Updates the configuration for a Log Stream

##### Request parameters

| Parameter | Description                       | Param Type | DataType                                      | Required |
| --------- | --------------------------------- | ---------- | --------------------------------------------- | -------- |

> | logStreamId     | `id` of the log stream to update           | URL        | String                                        | TRUE     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| logStreamId     | `id` of the Log Stream to update           | URL        | String                                        | TRUE     |
```

> | logStream       | Updated configuration for the log stream | Body       | [Log Stream](#log-stream-object) | TRUE     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| logStream       | Updated configuration for the Log Stream | Body       | [Log Stream](#log-stream-object) | TRUE     |
```

> All properties must be specified when updating the log stream configuration. Partial updates aren't supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update a Log Stream configuration, all properties must be specified. Partial configuration updates aren't supported.
```

Author: Sorry, actually updatable properties here depend on the type of Log Stream. I'd change it to:

Depending on the type of Log Stream, certain properties may not be updated once the Log Stream is created. Use [Log Stream Schema](/docs/reference/api/schemas/#log-stream-schema-operations) endpoint for the specific Log Stream type to find out which properties are marked as `writeOnce` and cannot be updated.

Author: @vanngo-okta ^^

    "type": "aws_eventbridge",
    "name": "Updated example AWS EventBridge",
}' "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/logStreams/0oa1orzg0CHSgPcjZ0g4"
```

##### Response example

```json
{
  "id": "0oa1orzg0CHSgPcjZ0g4",
  "type": "aws_eventbridge",
  "name": "Example AWS EventBridge",
  "lastUpdated": "2021-10-21T16:59:59.000Z",
  "created": "2021-10-21T16:59:59.000Z",
  "status": "ACTIVE",
  "settings": {
    "accountId": "123456789012",
    "eventSourceName": "your-event-source-name",
    "region": "us-east-2"
  },
  "_links": {
    "self": {
      "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/logStreams/0oa1orzg0CHSgPcjZ0g4",
      "method": "GET"
    },
    "deactivate": {
      "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/logStreams/0oa1orzg0CHSgPcjZ0g4/lifecycle/deactivate",
      "method": "POST"
    }
  }
}
```
### Delete a Log Stream

<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />

<ApiOperation method="delete" url="/api/v1/logStreams/${logStreamId}" />

Removes a Log Stream from your org

##### Request parameters

| Parameter | Description                 | Param Type | Data Type | Required |
| --------- | --------------------------- | ---------- | --------- | -------- |

> | logStreamId     | `id` of the log stream to delete   | URL        | String    | TRUE     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| logStreamId     | `id` of the Log Stream to delete   | URL        | String    | TRUE     |
```

##### Response parameters

There are no response parameters.

##### Request example

```bash
curl -v -X DELETE \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
-d '{
}' "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/logStreams/0oa1orzg0CHSgPcjZ0g4"
```

##### Response example

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

## Log Streaming lifecycle operations
The Log Streaming API has the following lifecycle operations:

* [Activate a Log Stream](#activate-a-log-stream)
* [Deactivate a Log Stream](#deactivate-a-log-stream)

### Activate a Log Stream

<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/api/v1/logStreams/${logStreamId}/lifecycle/activate" />

> Reactivates an inactive log stream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reactivates an inactive Log Stream
```

##### Request parameters

| Parameter | Description             | Param Type | DataType | Required |
| --------- | ----------------------- | ---------- | -------- | -------- |

> | logStreamId     | `id` of log stream to activate | URL        | String   | TRUE     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| logStreamId     | `id` of the Log Stream to activate | URL        | String   | TRUE     |
```

-H "Authorization: SSWS ${api_token}" \
-d '{
}' "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/logStreams/0oa1orzg0CHSgPcjZ0g4/lifecycle/activate"
```

##### Response example

```json
{
  "id": "0oa1orzg0CHSgPcjZ0g4",
  "type": "aws_eventbridge",
  "name": "Example AWS EventBridge",
  "lastUpdated": "2021-10-21T16:59:59.000Z",
  "created": "2021-10-21T16:59:59.000Z",
  "status": "ACTIVE",
  "settings": {
    "accountId": "123456789012",
    "eventSourceName": "your-event-source-name",
    "region": "us-east-2"
  },
  "_links": {
    "self": {
      "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/logStreams/0oa1orzg0CHSgPcjZ0g4",
      "method": "GET"
    },
    "deactivate": {
      "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/logStreams/0oa1orzg0CHSgPcjZ0g4/lifecycle/deactivate",
      "method": "POST"
    }
  }
}
```

### Deactivate a Log Stream

<ApiLifecycle access="ea" />

<ApiOperation method="post" url="/api/v1/logStreams/${logStreamId}/lifecycle/deactivate" />

Deactivates an active Log Stream

##### Request parameters

| Parameter | Description               | Param Type | DataType | Required |
| --------- | ------------------------- | ---------- | -------- | -------- |

> | logStreamId     | `id` of log stream to deactivate | URL        | String   | TRUE     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| logStreamId     | `id` of the Log Stream to deactivate | URL        | String   | TRUE     |
```

    }
  }
}
```

## Log Stream object

### Log Stream object example

```json
{
  "id": "0oa1orzg0CHSgPcjZ0g4",
  "type": "aws_eventbridge",
  "name": "Example AWS EventBridge",
  "lastUpdated": "2021-10-21T16:59:59.000Z",
  "created": "2021-10-21T16:59:59.000Z",
  "status": "ACTIVE",
  "settings": {
    "accountId": "123456789012",
    "eventSourceName": "your-event-source-name",
    "region": "us-east-2"
  },
  "_links": {
    "self": {
      "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/logStreams/0oa1orzg0CHSgPcjZ0g4",
      "method": "GET"
    },
    "deactivate": {
      "href": "https://${yourOktaDomain}/api/v1/logStreams/0oa1orzg0CHSgPcjZ0g4/lifecycle/deactivate",
      "method": "POST"
    }
  }
}
```

### Log Stream properties

All Log Streams have the following properties:

| Property      | Description                                                  | DataType                                                       | Nullable | Unique | Readonly | MinLength | MaxLength |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------ | -------- | --------- | --------- |

> | id            | Unique key for the log stream                                       | String                                                         | FALSE    | TRUE   | TRUE     |           |           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| id            | Unique key for the Log Stream                                       | String                                                         | FALSE    | TRUE   | TRUE     |           |           |
```

> | created       | Timestamp when the log stream was created                             | Date                                                           | FALSE | FALSE | TRUE  |   |     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| created       | Timestamp when the Log Stream was created                             | Date                                                           | FALSE | FALSE | TRUE  |   |     |
```

> | lastUpdated   | Timestamp when the log stream was last updated                        | Date                                                           | FALSE | FALSE | TRUE  |   |     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| lastUpdated   | Timestamp when the Log Stream was last updated                        | Date                                                           | FALSE | FALSE | TRUE  |   |     |
```

> | _links        | Log stream [relational and lifecycle operation links](#log-stream-links-object) | [JSON HAL](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-kelly-json-hal-06) for [Log Stream Links](#log-stream-links-object)| TRUE  | FALSE | TRUE  |   |     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| _links        | Log Stream [relational and lifecycle operation links](#log-stream-links-object) | [JSON HAL](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-kelly-json-hal-06) for [Log Stream Links](#log-stream-links-object)| TRUE  | FALSE | TRUE  |   |     |
```

> | name          | Unique name for the log stream                                  | String                                                         | FALSE | TRUE  | FALSE | 1 | 100 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| name          | Unique name for the Log Stream                                  | String                                                         | FALSE | TRUE  | FALSE | 1 | 100 |
```

> | status        | Status of the log stream                                          | `ACTIVE` or `INACTIVE`                                         | FALSE | FALSE | TRUE  |   |     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| status        | Status of the Log Stream                                          | `ACTIVE` or `INACTIVE`                                         | FALSE | FALSE | TRUE  |   |     |
```

> | type          | Type of log stream                                                  | [Log Stream type](#log-stream-type)            | FALSE    | FALSE  | FALSE    |           |           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| type          | Type of Log Stream                                                  | [Log Stream type](#log-stream-type)            | FALSE    | FALSE  | FALSE    |           |           |
```

> | settings      | Log stream type settings                                                  | [AWS EventBridge Settings](#aws-eventbridge-settings-object)            | FALSE    | FALSE  | TRUE    |           |           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| settings      | Log Stream type settings                                                  | [AWS EventBridge Settings](#aws-eventbridge-settings-object)            | FALSE    | FALSE  | TRUE    |           |           |
```

#### Property details

* The `id`, `status`, `created`,  `lastUpdated`, and `_links` properties are available after a log stream is created.

#### Log Stream Links object

This object provides read-only link relationships to the log stream. The relational links include lifecycle operations. See [Web Linking](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8288) using the [JSON Hypertext Application Language](http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-kelly-json-hal-06) specification.

| Link Relation Type       | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                                                          |

> | self                     | The primary URL for the log stream                                                                                                       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| self                     | The primary URL for the Log Stream                                                                                                       |
```

> | activate                 | A URL to [activate](#activate-a-log-stream) an inactive log stream      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| activate                 | A URL to [activate](#activate-a-log-stream) an inactive Log Stream      |
```

> | deactivate               | A URL to [deactivate](#deactivate-a-log-stream) an active log stream        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| deactivate               | A URL to [deactivate](#deactivate-a-log-stream) an active Log Stream        |
```

#### Log Stream type

The Log Stream type specifies the streaming provider used. Okta supports the following providers:

| Type         | Description                                                                                                                                           |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `aws_eventbridge`      | [AWS EventBridge](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/aws_eventbridge_log_stream)                                                                       |

### AWS EventBridge Settings object

> The AWS EventBridge Settings object specifies the configuration for the `aws_eventbridge` Log Stream type. You cannot modify the AWS EventBridge Settings properties after the object is created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AWS EventBridge Settings object specifies the configuration for the `aws_eventbridge` Log Stream type. You can't modify the AWS EventBridge Settings properties after the object is created.
```

    "region": "us-east-2"
}
```

#### AWS EventBridge Settings properties

| Property      | Description                                                  | DataType                                                       | Nullable | Unique | Readonly | MinLength | MaxLength |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------ | -------- | --------- | --------- |
| accountId            | Your AWS account ID                                       | String                                                         | FALSE    | FALSE   | FALSE     |      12     |     12      |
| eventSourceName     | An alphanumeric name (no spaces) to identify this event source in AWS EventBridge                             | String (permitted characters: letters, digits, `.`, `-`,  `_` )  | FALSE | TRUE | FALSE  |  1 |  75   |
| region | The destination AWS region where your event source is going to be located            | String                                                           | FALSE | FALSE | FALSE  |   |     |

#### Property details

> * Once assigned during creation of the log stream, `accountId`, `eventSourceName`, `region` properties are not editable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  The `accountId`, `eventSourceName`,  and `region` properties are assigned during creation and can't be modified afterwards.
```

> * `region` property can be set to one of the following supported AWS region codes. The list can be also retrieved using the [Log Stream Schema](/docs/reference/api/schemas/#log-stream-schema-operations) endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `region` property can be set to one of the following supported AWS region codes. The `region` list can be also retrieved using the [Log Stream Schema](/docs/reference/api/schemas/#log-stream-schema-operations) endpoint.
```

> * The `region` property can be set to one of the following supported AWS region codes. The `region` list can be also retrieved using the [Log Stream Schema](/docs/reference/api/schemas/#log-stream-schema-operations) endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `region` property can be set to one of the following supported AWS region codes. The `region` list can also be retrieved with the [Log Stream Schema](/docs/reference/api/schemas/#log-stream-schema-operations) endpoint.
```
